<div class="title-card">
    <h1>.gitignore</h1>
</div>

---

# .gitignore

Is a file placed in the root of the repository that tells Git which files or directories that should never be added to version control.

This is **particularly important to you** since IntelliJ creates a `.idea` folder with project-specific settings and XML files that will cause conflict among team members.

`.gitignore` can also be used to allow secret files be added to the project without ever pushing them publicly.

---

# Folders and files that should never be pushed

JetBrains creates the `.idea` folder which is IDE preference specific. 

VSCode creates `.vscode` which contains user specific preferences and shouldn't be forced onto others. 

MacOS creates `.DS_Store` folders that relate to Finder settings. 

Windows creates `Thumbs.db`.

---

# Let's create a local .gitignore file in our semester repository

1. Generate a template with http://gitignore.io

2. Create a `.gitignore` file or add to the existing one.

3. Push it.

Now this repository is set up to ignore files and folders that shouldn't be tracked by Git.

But we would have to do this for every repository. A better solution would be to create a global `.gitignore` file.

---

# Add to the global .gitignore: \*nix

Check if file exists:

```bash
$ git config --global core.excludesfile
```

Modify the file:

```bash
$ nano ~/.gitignore
```

Configure the file (tell Git to use it, remember to point correctly to the file):

```bash
$ git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore
```

---

# Add to the global .gitignore: Windows

Check if file exists:

```powershell
$ git config --global core.excludesfile
```

Modify the file:

```powershell
$ notepad C:\Users\YourUsername\.gitignore_global
```

Configure the file (tell Git to use it):

```powershell
$ git config --global core.excludesfile C:\Users\YourUsername\.gitignore_global
```

---

# Git advice - write proper commit messages - I

* **Clarity**: Explains changes for team members and future reference.
* **Tracking**: Aids in understanding project evolution and change history.
* **Review Efficiency**: Simplifies code reviews by clearly explaining changes.
* **Debugging Aid**: Helps pinpoint when and why changes were made for troubleshooting.
* **Documentation**: Acts as a record for future reference, helpful for new team members.
* **Professionalism**: Reflects disciplined, best practice approach in software development.

---

# Git advice - write proper commit messages - I

Personal suggestion:

`<past_tense_verb> + <action>`

Examples: 

- Refactored the integration tests

- Created a dark mode feature

- Implemented a POST /users route

*Can you come up with commit messages that follow this structure?*

---

# Text Editors

```bash
$ nano <file_name>
```

`^` is the Control key. 

**Assignment**:

1. Try to create a file with nano.
2. Write something in the file. 
3. Save.
4. Exit nano.
5. Reopen the file.
6. Make some changes again but don't save this time. 
7. Exit and save. (Read careful what you are being asked.)

---

# A quick demo of `vim`

Vim works by having multiple modes.  

Vim is the default text editor for `git` so being able to quit it is useful. 

Never panic! Try to hit `Escape` and `:wq` (write and quit) or `:q!` (quit without saving).

**Assignment**:

```bash
$ touch <file_name>
$ git add <file_name>
$ git commit
```

Since you forgot to write a message vim pops up. 

---

# More Quitting

Different programs have different ways to terminate them. These include:

```
q
```

```
:q
```

```
CTRL-C
```

```
CTRL-D
```
